---
layout: post
author: Lasse Bienzeisler
title: "TU Braunschweig is hiring two PhD researchers"
summary: "The Transportation and Urban Engineering (IVS) at Technische Universität Braunschweig, led by Prof. Dr.-Ing. Bernhard Friedrich, has 2 open positions for PhD. They both involve the intensive use of MATSim to investigate innovative applications in the field of transport simulation."
type: job
---

The Institute of Transportation and Urban Engineering (IVS) at Technische Universität Braunschweig 
is currently offering two fully funded PhD positions focusing on simulation-based analysis using MATSim. 
Each position addresses a distinct research topic related to future transport systems:

#### 1. Agent-Based Simulation of Demand-Responsive Transport (DRT) in Rural Areas

  This position focuses on modeling and evaluating flexible, demand-responsive public transport services 
  in rural and peri-urban contexts. 
  MATSim is used to simulate how DRT systems, possibly operated with automated vehicles, 
  can be integrated into public transport networks in order to improve accessibility and sustainability. 
  The project involves close collaboration with local and regional transport authorities to ensure 
  practical relevance and real-world applicability of the findings.

  [Full job ad (PDF)](https://www.tu-braunschweig.de/fileadmin/Redaktionsgruppen/Institute_Fakultaet_3/IVS/Institut/Stellenausschreibung_IVS_TP.pdf)

#### 2. Agent-Based Simulation of Integrated Passenger and Freight Transport Systems

  As part of the newly established interdisciplinary research group *ReSpace! – Connected Response-able Spaces and Infrastructures for Sustainable Living*
  at TU Braunschweig, this project focuses on the agent-based simulation of future transport 
  systems that integrate passenger and freight flows. 
  ReSpace! is part of the “Ecoversity” initiative and funded by zukunft.niedersachsen, 
  a joint program of the Ministry of Science and Culture of Lower Saxony and the VolkswagenStiftung. 
  Using MATSim, the research investigates how multifunctional hubs, modular vehicle fleets, 
  and digitally connected infrastructures can enable dynamic coordination strategies to improve efficiency, 
  accessibility, and resilience under conditions of climate change and spatial constraints.

  [Full job ad (PDF)](https://www.tu-braunschweig.de/fileadmin/Redaktionsgruppen/Institute_Fakultaet_3/IVS/Institut/Stellenausschreibung_IVS_ReSpace.pdf)

**Application deadline: August 2025**

If you are interested, please check the job adverts linked above. If you have any questions, feel free to [contact me](l.bienzeisler@tu-braunschweig.de).
